
gwave - a  viewer for the output of spice-like simulators
and other viewing of analog data.

by:

Steve Tell 
Microelectronic Systems Laboratory
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
CB 3175 Sitterson Hall
Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3175
tell@cs.unc.edu

Installation:
	Edit the top of the makefile if necessary
	Compile with GNU make.
	test gwave on some files in the examples directory
	Copy the "gwave" binary to your favorite bin

Usage:
wave [-t filetype] [-p number-of-panels] your-waveform-file

Number-of-panels defaults to 2.  It understands CAzM transient output
(.N/.B/.W) files, and the binary and ascii outputs from HSPICE (.tr0,
.sw0, and .ac0) files.  
If the file type is unspecified, it tries to guess
based on filename, and then tries all file formats until one succedes.

Use the View->Variable List menu to see a list of a list of signals in
your simulation files, then drag-and-drop signals into waveform
panels.

To delete waves, select one or more of them using the buttons down the
left side of the main window, and then press the "delete" button.

Click on the waveform panels with the left and center mouse buttons to set two
cursors for measuring.


New in 0.0.3:
- Load multiple files at once, either from the command line or 
interactively.
- Some operations are moved to pulldown menus.

New in 0.0.4:
- Fixed bug and/or warning when first waveform is added to display
- Ability to drag vertical bar cursors around, in addition to click-to-place
- Added zoom-to-cursor function; if both cursors have been placed,
	zooms so that the time between the cursors fills the display.
- Added zoom-to-window function.  Select this menu option, then
	press/drag/release mouse button 1 to indicate a region of the X
	axis that then zooms to fill the display.

Known problems:
- HSPICE data files generated without ".options probe" may not be read
correctly. workaround: try using ".options probe".  This mostly happens with
AC sweeps.


This tool is far from complete. Partial contents of the To Do list:

Interactively changing the number of panels instead of using a lame
command-line option
Send feedback and error messages from loading of files to a popup window
or status line instead of to stdout.
Drag-and-drop to move waveform from one panel to another
Logarithmic X and Y axes
Speed up redraws and minimize flashing, especialy flashing 
of waveform name/value labels when moving cursors.
Generate a postscript representation for printing or documentation.
Override of wave and panel paramters, like min/max Y value, color, etc.
Saving and restoring waveform/panel configuration 
Drawing a labeled graticule in the waveform area
Seperate lists for selecting voltage/current/etc. types of variables


Feedback is welcome - tell@cs.unc.edu
