
Gtk 2.0, using guile-gnome-platform
	first, just get it working
	then redo wavelist with better widget, to fix the max-height problem
	better use of file-chooser widget (wildcard/regexp to help find files)

Handle files where indepdendent variable goes backwards in time
	(coded some for this with sweep work, not tested)
	
Management of displays of many variables
	- way to set actual/min/max height of WavePanel? 
	        just see what happens by default.
		
add a usage message invoked by -h or invalid-option

ability to get wave data from guile
	(wavevar-value x) - return value at x-coord.
	what else? how to expose the structure of wavevars?

survey existing guile primitives and add new ones to fill out a useful set
for scripting in general, not just what the GUI offers at the moment.
	replace wtable-redraw! with (wavepanel-redraw! p), allow #t for all
	replace delete-selected-waves! with delete-viswave and 
	get-selected

write more plot backend scheme modules

custom measurements

waveform calculations
	- display-functions of a single wavevar and scalars
	- display-functions of wavevars sharing the same independent var
	- more general stuff that computes a new wavevar

Y zoom methods:
	manual: type in min and max for panel DONE
	automatic-global: (original)
	automatic-window: alway show min, max in current window zoom extents
	oneshot-global: compute min,max when clicked, not continually.
	oneshot-window

documentation
	docstring extraction from guile
	get reference-manual auto-generation working
	write some introductory text to hold the auto-generated parts together

example guile scripts for useful functions

draw a real graticule in wave panels

"envelope" drawing algorithm (that doesn't alias when too many
datapoints for current zoom) 
Add an indication that there may be too many points on screen (simply
look at number of ivar points vs. number of pixels)

additional drawing styles
	linestyles - dashed, etc.
	symbols showing actual datapoints

prevent switching to log-scale if the axis includes 0 or negative values.

Accept drag-and-drop from a file manager to add files, run scripts
Allow drag-and-drop from one wavepanel to another to move wave

Alternate ways of getting wavevars into panels
	selected-panel notion helps, but double-click not intuitive enough
	selected-list of wavevars
	wavevar toolbar with "add" button adds selected wavevars to selected
	panel. 
	Deferred: needs better scrolling-list for variables.
	
hook to choose better short-tags for files
	example based on regular expression on filename


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
tasks list items finished:

Improve notion of a current/selected wavepanel
	draw highlighted outline			DONE

way to highlight selected visiblewaves DONE based on patch from Serban Popescu

overhaul plotting	DONE
	move mostly into scheme	
	keep "wave data export" function in C, make availble in guile
	dialog box for options

move to top, move to bottom to alter drawing order for visiblewaves in panel
	DONE

Management of displays of many variables
	- scrolling list for variable buttons within each WavePanel
		on left side of button area
		done in 20050928
	- vertical scrollbar for whole WaveWin, on right side
		done in 20051123

Handle files with multiple sweeps	
	- done in 20050928
